---
layout: post
title: "Gunpowder plot"
date: 2021-06-08 15:46:30 +0200
---

need an opinion from you guys - how does this work as a science-fiction plotline?

## notes

* if any kind of 'magical technological advance' is needed by the plot just invent a result via advancing AI (artificial intelligence)
  - AKA neural networks
  - AKA machine learning
* this is quite a rough draft - a lot of the final detail to still work out

## assumptions

i know it sucks, but sorry, please
just imagine no vaccine for Covid 19

#### with economic activity severly curtailed anyway, European governments are finally forced to deal with the climate crisis

- a monetary standard for the Euro is devised, based on sequestered carbon (i.e. carbon captured or otherwise stored safely away)
- EU members' carbon stores (i.e. mines, gasfields, forests) are locked up and guarded in the (inter)national interest
- carbon is rationed according to need on a weekly basis to EU citizens - aliens & migrants however are not included
  * maybe people excluded from the carbon ration are forced to participate in the market? maybe they crowdfund themselves? ...
- all products are valued both in Euros and also in a (fixed) carbon price-tag, to be paid using freely-tradable carbon rations
- as a result, carbon emissions are immediately and dramtically curtailed, and the model becomes adopted by other states

#### trapped indoors and socially isolated, many people become heavily invested in virtual reality (VR) tech

- becomes cheaper, more widely available & more actively developed (as media and as a platform)
- VR takes over as the dominant medium of for social interaction
- explore what it would be like to have an virtual-reality house-party during a neverending lockdown:
  * if you cheat on your partner in virtual - do you cheat in real life?
  * what the fuck is it like to do drugs at a virtual party!?

#### government corporate & religious actors scramble to exploit this emerging ability, as propaganda and as a weapon

The ad-tech industry develops a clever means of making money from VR participants.
Participating platforms incorporate imperceptible audio-visual distortions to the perceived experience.
Based on developments in behavioural psychology & AI, these subtly influence consumer behaviour in-line with marketing goals.

Also:
- isis hackers perform mock executions over the internet on israeli soldiers during simulated training
- AIs begin to create deep-fake people for use in widely consunmed virtual entertainment, including pornography
- ...
- add enough 'dark dark dark' content as necessary, to engage the reader's appetite for violence

#### medical research explores the use of VR as a therapy for trauma victims

- machines are developed which allow for effective computerised reprogramming-by-computer of patients by doctors
- developed in high-tech research labs & produced in the name of the public, under a deep veil of secrecy
- basically, this is a lazy analogy the the 'the wuhan institute of virology developed covid' plague-explanation

#### somehow, through malice or idiocy, this reprogramming-software ends up 'in the wild'

- publicly available in code repositories like  GitHub where it can be used (and copied) by anyone with internet access
- quickly ends up in the hands of tech giants & terror cells, coders & anarchists, parents, wives & husbands

#### shortly afterwards, somebody anyonymous releases a 'VR novel' named *** (think of something good) on Amazon Virtual Marketplace

- consumers discover that each single experience of the novel is uniquely individual to them
  * the experience is always realistic, first-person and ends with death
  * the length of time varies wildly, as do the people and surroundings
- as fans remain unable to discover any pattern through repeated 'readings', some become fanatically obsessed
  * constant exposure to their own 'death' starts to have unusual psychological effects, not dis-similar to religious conversion
- within this group, a cult of weirdos, misfits and maladaptives all around the world form a cult based on 'solving the plot'
- that is - they believe there's some dark conspiracy underfoot which can only be resolved by 'following the clues'

Baby, you got yourself a cult going! Basically not too far away from the Q-anon or the Querdenker movements.
What happens when certain obsessives 'binge-read' the VR-novella - are they being reprogrammed? If so, why?
Is the content from the VR experience generated by inscrutible algorithms? Or could it be the work of a prophet,
some strange and holy window into another world somewhere beyond this one?
I feel like there's interesting possibilities to explore. It's a nice thought experiment:
what would the world be like if there were software to effortlessly program somebody?
Basically, the question is:
How to program a person?

Anyway, that's the essential backstory, hope it's not too far-fetched (besides the vaccine!)
Let me know what you think in the comments below, and don't forget to like rate and subscribe!
Cheers doggs!

#### Cut to the (possible) start of the story (or an option at least) - here we go...








```

  GUNPOWDER  -  (*) (*) (*) (*) (*) over 26 million downloads

  People who consumed this virtual-reality product also consumed:
    * The 120 Days of Sodom by Marquis de Sade 
    * American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis
    * 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote To Chaos by Jordan B Peterson

...

```






